# Prompt

**Day 1: Report Repair**

After saving Christmas five years in a row, you've decided to take a vacation at a nice resort on a tropical island. Surely, Christmas will go on without you.

The tropical island has its own currency and is entirely cash-only. The gold coins used there have a little picture of a starfish; the locals just call them stars. None of the currency exchanges seem to have heard of them, but somehow, you'll need to find fifty of these coins by the time you arrive so you can pay the deposit on your room.

To save your vacation, you need to get all fifty stars by December 25th.

Collect stars by solving puzzles. Two puzzles will be made available on each day in the Advent calendar; the second puzzle is unlocked when you complete the first. Each puzzle grants one star. Good luck!

Before you leave, the Elves in accounting just need you to fix your expense report (your puzzle input); apparently, something isn't quite adding up.

Specifically, they need you to find the two entries that sum to 2020 and then multiply those two numbers together.

For example, suppose your expense report contained the following:

1721
979
366
299
675
1456

In this list, the two entries that sum to 2020 are 1721 and 299. Multiplying them together produces 1721 * 299 = 514579, so the correct answer is 514579.

Of course, your expense report is much larger. Find the two entries that sum to 2020; what do you get if you multiply them together?

# Solution comments

In any case, all elements will need to be scanned, making this O(n) at best. I did wonder if there were any number tricks to pull (possibly involving logarithms), but addition and multiplication aren't exactly slow operations.

For any solution, one number must be less than or equal to 2020/2 = 1010, and the other larger, therefore the pseudocode is

* let seen = some implementation of a set
* for number:
  * if number < 1010:
    * seen.insert(number)
  * else:
    * let complement = 2020 - number
    * if seen.contains(complement):
	  * print number * complement
	  * halt
* assertion failed

If the arithmetic, branching, and set operations are O(1), then this solution is O(n).

Possible ways to implement the set:

* Hash set - operations are O(1) amortised
* Tree set - likely to be inferior both asymptotically and in real-world to a hash set
* Sorted dynamic array with binary search - insertion is O(1) amortised, querying is O(log n), but real world performance may well beat the hash set
* **Bit set** [Chosen] - the logical conclusion of the dynamic array with full population. 1010 is a rather small number, requiring just 127 bytes, so this solution is quite feasible even on constrained hardware